blog: Add service account tokens post (#1254)
linkerd/website: linkerd.io/content/blog/linkerd-service-account-tokens.md

---

> title: Service Account Tokens in Linkerd

Reviewer: IMO the exciting bit here is the move to *bound* ServiceAccount tokens. I think the post would be stronger if it were titled something like "Using Kubernetes's new bound ServiceAccounts for secure identity", and started with a general comment about Linkerd's emphasis on security and simplicity. Happy to suggest a paragraph or two if you like that approach.

date: 2021-12-10T00:00:00Z
tags:
  - identity
  - service-accounts
author: tarun
description: 'Linkerd uses Kubernetes Service Account Tokens to verify the proxy
  before issuing a certificate, and also for other functions.
  Lets understand all this in this post, along with the latest developments. '
keywords: [identity service-accounts]
---

> Linkerd uses mTLS to secure communication between services. You can read

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Linkerd uses mutual TLS (mTLS) to secure communication between services. You can read
```

all about it in the [mTLS guide](https://buoyant.io/mtls-guide/). All of

> the mTLS magic is possible because the control-plane (specifically the

Reviewer: Terminology and capitalization notes: 
* I suggest "control plane" instead of "control-plane" for consistency with other posts.
* I suggest using either `ServiceAccount` to refer to the actual K8s object, or "service account" for the general concept, but avoiding "Service Account".
* Referring to the proxy certs as "leaf certs" isn't wrong but IMO it's a little distracting since we're not talking about the implications of leaf vs non-leaf. I would just refer to them as certs.
* I would just use "pod" everywhere instead of Pod.

`identity` component) issues a Leaf certificate that the proxy uses
to authenticate itself with other services. This feels all nice and fine,

> right? But how does the identity component ensure it's issuing certificate

Reviewer 2: Change to "...ensure it is issuing a certificate for a proxy in the cluster and not some intruder trying to communicate...`

> or a proxy in the cluster and not some intruder trying to communicate with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to a proxy in the cluster and not some intruder trying to communicate with
```

other services in the cluster? How does the control-plane ensure identities of the

> proxies itself? Now, Let's dive into that :)

Reviewer 2: Replace "Now, let's dive into that" with "We'll answer those questions in this blog post. Let's dive in"

## Kubernetes Service Accounts

This is not just a Linkerd problem right? A lot of components or K8s controllers
would want to verify the identity  of their clients (if they are running
in the cluster or not) before providing services for them. So, Kubernetes provides
Service Accounts that are attached to your Pods by default, and can be used

> by the application inside to prove its identity to other components that its

Reviewer 2: Replace "its" with "it is"

> part of the kubernetes cluster. These are attached as a volume into your Pod,

Reviewer 2: Uppercase "Kubernetes" for consistency

and are mounted into the container at the `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount`
filepath. By default, Kubernetes attaches the `default` service account of the pod
namespace.

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
  ...
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount
      name: kube-api-access-tsbwl
      readOnly: true
  ...
  volumes:
  - name: kube-api-access-tsbwl
    projected:
      defaultMode: 420
      sources:
      - serviceAccountToken:
          expirationSeconds: 3607
          path: token
      - configMap:
          items:
          - key: ca.crt
            path: ca.crt
          name: kube-root-ca.crt
      - downwardAPI:
          items:
          - fieldRef:
              apiVersion: v1
              fieldPath: metadata.namespace
            path: namespace
```

Service Accounts are also popularly used with Kubernetes RBAC to grant access to

> Kubernetes API Services to pods. This is done by attaching a ClusterRole (with

Reviewer 2: Use backticks on `ClusterRole` for consistency

necessary permissions) to a ServiceAccount (by creating a `ServiceAccount` object)

> using a `ClusterRoleBinding`. and then specifying the same Service Account in the

Reviewer 2: Change "and then specifying..." to "Then we can specify the same `ServiceAccount`..."

`serviceAccountName` of your workload. This would override the default service
account that is present per namespace. The default service account token
has no permissions to view, list or modify any resources in the cluster.

When Kubernetes attaches the service account token, it also attaches a configmap
of the `kube-root-ca.crt` that is used to talk to the API server. (Linkerd never

> used all of these as the proxies *never* talk to the Kubernetes API directly.

Reviewer 2: "used" -> "uses"

Author: used right? because they were only present previously and we never used then. They are not present after the latest changes. 🤔

Reviewer 2: ah, you're right. I lost the tense there. :)

it has to read the token and `kube-root-ca.crt` from the path to be able to talk
to the Kubernetes API.

## Current Linkerd Integration

For the proxy to get its leaf certificates, it needs to verify itself with the identity
component. This is done by embedding the service account token into the `Certify`
request that is called every time a new leaf certificate is needed(24h by default).
The identity component [validates the token](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/blob/main/controller/identity/validator.go#L51)
by talking to the [TokenReview](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.19/#tokenreview-v1-authentication-k8s-io)
Kubernetes API and returns a `CertifyResponse` with the leaf certificate only after
that. The Identity component not only verifies that the token is valid, but it also
verifies if the token is associated with the same pod that that is requesting the
certificate. This can be verified by looking at the `Status.User.Username` in the
TokenReview response. Kubernetes API sets the username to the pod name to which
that token was attached.

Only the identity component in Linkerd has the necessary API access to verify Tokens.

> Once a token is verified, Only after that the identity component issues a certificate

Reviewer 2: remove "Only after that"

for the proxy to use to communicate with other services.

### Identity

These service accounts are also used for identity of the client/server.

> Whenever a meshed request is received or being sent. The relevant metrics

Reviewer 2: change "...or being sent, the relevant..."

also include the service account with which that peer was associated with.

Here, is an example metric from the emojivoto example:

```promql
request_total{..., client_id="web.emojivoto.serviceaccount.identity.linkerd.cluster.local", authority="emoji-svc.emojivoto.svc.cluster.local:8080",  namespace="emojivoto", pod="emoji-696d9d8f95-5sj4j"} 14532
```

As you can see the `client_id` label in the above metric is the service account
that was attached to the client pod from where the request was received.

### Policy

> Linkerd's new Policy Enforcement feature allows users to specify set of clients

Reviewer: Terminology: I would call this either "authorization policy" which is what we use in the docs.

that can only access a set of resources. This is done by using the same identity

> by allowing users to specify service accounts of the clients that should be allowed

Reviewer 2: change "by allowing" to "to enable"

to talk to a group of workloads (grouped by the `Server` resource) in
their `ServerAuthorization` resource.

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.linkerd.io/v1beta1
kind: ServerAuthorization
metadata:
  namespace: emojivoto
  name: internal-grpc
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: emojivoto
    app.kubernetes.io/version: v11
spec:
  server:
    selector:
      matchLabels:
        emojivoto/api: internal-grpc
  client:
    meshTLS:
      serviceAccounts:
        - name: web
```

> In the above example, we are allowing workloads that use the `web` service account

Reviewer 2: change "allowing" to "permitting"

to talk to the `internal-grpc` server.

## Latest Updates

> Though all of this is great, There's still a catch. This token is aimed at the

Reviewer 2: change "... There's still a..." to "... there's still a..."

> applications to talk to the kubernetes API and not specifically for Linkerd.

Reviewer 2: Uppercase `Kubernetes` for consistency

Linkerd also doesn't need those extra certs that are part of the default volume mount.
This also means that there are [controls outside of Linkerd](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#use-the-default-service-account-to-access-the-api-server),
to manage this service token, which users might want to use,
[causing problems with Linkerd](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/issues/3183)
as Linkerd might expect it to be present to do the verification. Users can
also explicitly disable the token auto-mount on their pods causing problems with

> Linkerd. Currently, We skip pod injection if that is the case.

Reviewer 2: Change "Currently, we skip..." to "As of Linkerd 2.11, we skip pod injection if the token auto-mount is disabled."

For all the above challenges, Starting from [edge-21.11.1](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/releases/tag/edge-21.11.1)
We have added the support for Auto-Mount Bounded service account tokens. Instead
of using the token that is mounted by default, Linkerd will request its own set
of tokens by using the [Bound Service Account Tokens](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-auth/1205-bound-service-account-tokens)
feature.

Using this, Linkerd injector will request for a token that is bounded specifically

> for Linkerd, along with a 24h expiry(just like that of identity expiration). This

Reviewer 2: add space after "expiry"

---
title: Using Kubernetes's Bounded Service Account Tokens for secure Identity
date: 2021-12-10T00:00:00Z
tags:
  - identity
  - service-accounts
author: tarun
description: 'Linkerd uses Kubernetes service account tokens to verify the proxy
  before issuing a certificate, and also for other functions.
  Lets understand all this in this post, along with the latest developments. '
keywords: [identity service-accounts]
---

> Security is a first-class concern for Linkerd. We recently added support for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Security is a first-class concern for Linkerd. It plays a critical role in enhancing the overall security of the
system, and this is only possible if Linkerd *itself* is secure. We recently added support for
```

Kubernetes's new bounded service account tokens to Linkerd. This is a big step forward
for security. But why? In order to understand that, first we need to understand how
Linkerd uses service accounts.

> Linkerd uses mutual TLS (mTLS) to secure communication between services. You can
> read all about it in the [mTLS guide](https://buoyant.io/mtls-guide/). All of
> the mTLS magic is possible because the control plane (specifically the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```suggestion
Linkerd provides mutual TLS (mTLS) to secure communication between workloads. Central to
any type of communication security is the notion of *identity*—as discussed in the
[Kubernetes engineer’s guide to mTLS](https://buoyant.io/mtls-guide/), without identity you
have no authenticity, and without authenticity you do not have secure communication.
All of Linkerd's mTLS magic is possible because the control plane (specifically the
```

`identity` component) issues a certificate that the proxy uses
to authenticate itself with other services. This feels all nice and fine,
right? But how does the identity component ensure it is issuing a certificate
to a proxy in the cluster and not some intruder trying to communicate with
other services in the cluster? How does the control plane ensure identities of the
proxies itself? We'll answer those questions in this blog post. Let's dive in!

## Kubernetes Service Accounts

> This is not just a Linkerd problem right? A lot of components or K8s controllers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is not just a Linkerd problem. A lot of components or K8s controllers
```

would want to verify the identity  of their clients (if they are running
in the cluster or not) before providing services for them. So, Kubernetes provides
service accounts that are attached to your pods by default, and can be used
by the application inside to prove its identity to other components that it is
part of the Kubernetes cluster. These are attached as a volume into your pod,
and are mounted into the container at the `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount`
filepath. By default, Kubernetes attaches the `default` service account of the pod
namespace.

> ```yaml

Author: I' +1 on keeping it, as it shows this in reality, instead of just trying to explain in words! 🤔

      sources:
      - serviceAccountToken:
          expirationSeconds: 3607
          path: token
      - configMap:
          items:
          - key: ca.crt
            path: ca.crt
          name: kube-root-ca.crt
      - downwardAPI:
          items:
          - fieldRef:
              apiVersion: v1
              fieldPath: metadata.namespace
            path: namespace
```

service accounts are also popularly used with Kubernetes RBAC to grant access to
Kubernetes API Services to pods. This is done by attaching a `ClusterRole` (with
necessary permissions) to a service account (by creating a `ServiceAccount` object)
using a `ClusterRoleBinding`. Then we can specify the same service account in the
`serviceAccountName` of your workload. This would override the default service
account that is present per namespace. The default service account token
has no permissions to view, list or modify any resources in the cluster.

When Kubernetes attaches the service account token, it also attaches a configmap
of the `kube-root-ca.crt` that is used to talk to the API server. (Linkerd never
used all of these as the proxies *never* talk to the Kubernetes API directly.

> We will see later how we even stopped using these in the latest changes).

Reviewer: I don't quite understand this bit. What does "these" refer to? "Linkerd never used all of these" suggests that it used a portion of the ConfigMap, but what is in the ConfigMap besides that one certificate? (Also we should probably describe what kube-root-ca.crt is)

Author: Hmm, `kube-root-ca.crt` is a separate configmap that gets attached to authenticate with the API server. I updated this para to explain that.

If you've [used `client-go`'s `rest.InClusterConfig()`](https://github.com/kubernetes/client-go/blob/master/examples/in-cluster-client-configuration/main.go#L42)
to get the config, you can [see](https://github.com/kubernetes/client-go/blob/master/rest/config.go#L514)
it has to read the token and `kube-root-ca.crt` from the path to be able to talk
to the Kubernetes API.

> ## Current Linkerd Integration
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## So how does Linkerd validate that its proxies are who they say they are?

```

For the proxy to get its certificates, it needs to verify itself with the identity
component. This is done by embedding the service account token into the `Certify`

> request that is called every time a new certificate is needed(24h by default).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
request that is called every time a new certificate is needed (24 hours, by default).
```

The identity component [validates the token](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/blob/main/controller/identity/validator.go#L51)
by talking to the [TokenReview](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.19/#tokenreview-v1-authentication-k8s-io)
Kubernetes API and returns a `CertifyResponse` with the certificate only after
that. The identity component not only verifies that the token is valid, but it also
verifies if the token is associated with the same pod that that is requesting the
certificate. This can be verified by looking at the `Status.User.Username` in the
`TokenReview` response. Kubernetes API sets the username to the pod name to which
that token was attached.

Only the identity component in Linkerd has the necessary API access to verify Tokens.
Once a token is verified, the identity component issues a certificate
for the proxy to use to communicate with other services.

> ### Identity
> 
> These service accounts are also used for identity of the client/server.
> Whenever a meshed request is received or being sent, the relevant metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How does Linkerd provide workload identity?

Linkerd takes a beautiful (in my mind) simplifying step here: the service accounts aren't just used
to validate that the proxies are who they say they are, they're used as the *basis of the workload's
identity itself*. This gives us a workload identity that is already tied to the capabilities granted to the
pod, and means that we can provide mTLS without any additional configuration! This is the secret
behind Linkerd's ability to provide on-by-default mTLS for all meshed pods.

Whenever Linkerd established a mutual TLS connection between two endpoints,
the identity exchanged is that of the service account on either side. This identity
is even wired into Linkerd's metrics: whenever a meshed request is received or being sent, the relevant metrics
```

```

In the above example, we are permitting workloads that use the `web` service account
to talk to the `internal-grpc` server.

## Bounded Service Account Tokens

Though all of this is great, there's still a catch. This token is aimed at the
applications to talk to the Kubernetes API and not specifically for Linkerd.
Linkerd also doesn't need those extra certs that are part of the default volume mount.
This is not a security best practice. Linkerd actually gets more permissions than
it really needs with default service account tokens. That's a potential vulnerability
waiting to happen. This also means that there are [controls outside of Linkerd](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#use-the-default-service-account-to-access-the-api-server),
to manage this service token, which users might want to use,
[causing problems with Linkerd](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/issues/3183)
as Linkerd might expect it to be present to do the verification. Users can
also explicitly disable the token auto-mount on their pods causing problems with
Linkerd. As of Linkerd 2.11, we skip pod injection if the token auto-mount is disabled.

> For all the above challenges, Starting from [edge-21.11.1](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/releases/tag/edge-21.11.1)
> We have added the support for auto-mount bounded service account tokens. Instead

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address these challenges, starting from [edge-21.11.1](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/releases/tag/edge-21.11.1)
we have added the support for auto-mount bounded service account tokens. Instead
```

of using the token that is mounted by default, Linkerd will request its own set
of tokens by using the [Bound Service Account Tokens](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-auth/1205-bound-service-account-tokens)

> feature. Bounded Service Account Tokens which got GA'ed in Kubernetes v1.20 are just

Reviewer: ```suggestion
feature. Bounded Service Account Tokens (GA as of in Kubernetes v1.20) are just
```

> like the default tokens except that they could be bounded for a different

Reviewer: Needs a better description IMO

purpose.

Using this, Linkerd injector will request for a token that is bounded specifically
for Linkerd, along with a 24h expiry (just like that of identity expiration). This
token is generated for the same service account that was mounted to the pod by

> Kubernetes, and thus not affecting any of the identity and policy stuff discussed
> above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes, and thus does not affect any of Linkerd's existing functionality around identity and policy discussed
above.
```

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
  ...
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /var/run/linkerd/identity/end-entity
      name: linkerd-identity-end-entity
  ...
  volumes:
  - name: linkerd-identity-token
    projected:
      defaultMode: 420
      sources:
      - serviceAccountToken:
          audience: identity.l5d.io
          expirationSeconds: 86400
          path: linkerd-identity-token
```

As you can this token is specifically generated for Linkerd for the proxies

> to verify themselves with identity, and can no way be used talk to the
> Kubernetes API. Thus, giving us a nice separation of concerns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to verify themselves with identity, and cannot be used talk to the
Kubernetes API, giving us a nice separation of concerns.
```

## Conclusion

> In this post, We understood how the Bounded Service Account tokens feature help
> Linkerd in securing the identity stuff even further. We learned how the
> control-plane validates the proxies before issuing the certificates, and thus
> making mutual TLS possible. We also saw how Linkerd uses Kubernetes's service
> accounts as a primitive to build features like Policy, Identity, etc.
> 
> This is another example of how Linkerd strives to build on the Kubernetes primitives
> without reinventing similar things, while also placing security on the fore-front
> by integrating the latest developments in Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post, we described the motivation for moving to Kubernetes's new bound service account tokens,
which reduce the scope of Linkerd's access to the Kubernetes API to the bare minimum necessary to support
its security features. We also uncovered some of the inner workings of how the
control plane validates the proxies before issuing the certificates, and saw how Linkerd uses Kubernetes's service accounts as a primitive to build features like authorization policy.

Our goal with Linkerd is to provide world-class security for Kubernetes users without imposing a burden on them. By relying on service accounts, we can provide on-by-default mutual TLS with zero config for all meshed pods,
the moment you install Linkerd. And with bound service accounts, the implementation is even more secure
than before.

## Linkerd is for everyone

Linkerd is a [graduated project](/2021/07/28/announcing-cncf-graduation/) of the
[Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://cncf.io/). Linkerd is [committed to
open
governance.](https://linkerd.io/2019/10/03/linkerds-commitment-to-open-governance/)
If you have feature requests, questions, or comments, we'd love to have you join
our rapidly-growing community! Linkerd is hosted on
[GitHub](https://github.com/linkerd/), and we have a thriving community on
[Slack](https://slack.linkerd.io/), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/linkerd), and
the [mailing lists](https://linkerd.io/2/get-involved/). Come and join the fun!

```

---

> title: Using Kubernetes's new Bound Service Account Tokens for secure workload Identity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Using Kubernetes's new Bound Service Account Tokens for secure workload identity
```

> date: 2021-12-24T00:00:00Z

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2021-12-27T00:00:00Z
```

Reviewer: Or whenever :)

For the proxy to get its certificates, it needs to verify itself with the identity
component. This is done by embedding the service account token into the `Certify`
request that is called every time a new certificate is needed (24hours by default).
The identity component [validates the token](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/blob/main/controller/identity/validator.go#L51)
by talking to the [TokenReview](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.19/#tokenreview-v1-authentication-k8s-io)
Kubernetes API and returns a `CertifyResponse` with the certificate only after
that. The identity component not only verifies that the token is valid, but it also
verifies if the token is associated with the same pod that that is requesting the
certificate. This can be verified by looking at the `Status.User.Username` in the
`TokenReview` response. Kubernetes API sets the username to the pod name to which
that token was attached.

Only the identity component in Linkerd has the necessary API access to verify tokens.
Once a token is verified, the identity component issues a certificate
for the proxy to use to communicate with other services.

> ### How does Linkerd provide workload identity?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How does Linkerd provide workload identity?
```

used as the *basis of the workload's identity itself*. This gives us a workload
identity that is already tied to the capabilities granted to the pod, and means
that we can provide mTLS without any additional configuration! This is the secret
behind Linkerd's ability to provide on-by-default mTLS for all meshed pods.

Whenever Linkerd established a mutual TLS connection between two endpoints,
the identity exchanged is that of the service account on either side. This identity
is even wired into Linkerd's metrics: whenever a meshed request is received or
being sent, the relevant metrics also include the service account with which
that peer was associated with.

Here is an example metric from the [emojivoto](https://linkerd.io/2/getting-started/)
example:

```promql
request_total{..., client_id="web.emojivoto.serviceaccount.identity.linkerd.cluster.local", authority="emoji-svc.emojivoto.svc.cluster.local:8080",  namespace="emojivoto", pod="emoji-696d9d8f95-5sj4j"} 14532
```

As you can see the `client_id` label in the above metric is the service account
that was attached to the client pod from where the request was received.

> ### Authorization Policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Authorization Policy
```

Linkerd's new authorization policy feature allows users to specify set of clients
that can only access a set of resources. This is done by using the same identity
to enable users to specify service accounts of the clients that should be allowed
to talk to a group of workloads (grouped by the `Server` resource) in
their `ServerAuthorization` resource.

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.linkerd.io/v1beta1
kind: ServerAuthorization
metadata:
  namespace: emojivoto
  name: internal-grpc
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: emojivoto
    app.kubernetes.io/version: v11
spec:
  server:
    selector:
      matchLabels:
        emojivoto/api: internal-grpc
  client:
    meshTLS:
      serviceAccounts:
        - name: web
```

In the above example, we are permitting workloads that use the `web` service account
to talk to the `internal-grpc` server.

> ## Bounded Service Account Tokens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Bound Service Account Tokens
```

it really needs with default service account tokens. That's a potential vulnerability
waiting to happen. This also means that there are [controls outside of Linkerd](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#use-the-default-service-account-to-access-the-api-server),
to manage this service token, which users might want to use,
[causing problems with Linkerd](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/issues/3183)
as Linkerd might expect it to be present to do the verification. Users can
also explicitly disable the token auto-mount on their pods causing problems with
Linkerd. As of Linkerd 2.11, we skip pod injection if the token auto-mount is disabled.

To address these challenges, starting from [edge-21.11.1](https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/releases/tag/edge-21.11.1)
we have added the support for auto-mount bound service account tokens. Instead
of using the token that is mounted by default, Linkerd will request its own set
of tokens by using the [Bound Service Account Tokens](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-auth/1205-bound-service-account-tokens)

> feature. Bounded Service Account Tokens (GA as of in Kubernetes v1.20) feature allows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
feature. Bound Service Account Tokens (GA as of in Kubernetes v1.20) feature allows
```
